3_software/3_7_runtime-compatibility.md, before:

## 3.7\. Runtime Compatibility

Device implementations MUST support the full Dalvik Executable (DEX) format and
[Dalvik bytecode specification and semantics](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/dalvik/).
Device implementers SHOULD use ART, the reference upstream implementation of the Dalvik
Executable Format, and the reference implementation’s package management system.

Device implementations MUST configure Dalvik runtimes to allocate memory in
accordance with the upstream Android platform, and as specified by the following
table. (See [section 7.1.1](#7_1_1_screen_configuration) for screen size and
screen density definitions.) Note that memory values specified below are
considered minimum values and device implementations MAY allocate more memory
per application.

<table>
 <tr>
    <th>Screen Layout</th>
    <th>Screen Density</th>
    <th>Minimum Application Memory</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">Android Watch</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="3">32MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">36MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>56MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>64MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>88MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>112MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>154MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">small/normal</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">32MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="3">48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">80MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>96MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>112MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>128MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>192MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>256MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">large</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td>32MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
    <td>48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">80MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
    <td>96MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td>128MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
    <td>160MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>192MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>228MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>256MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>384MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>512MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">xlarge</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td>48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
    <td>80MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">96MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
    <td>144MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td>192MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
    <td>240MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>288MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>336MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>384MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>576MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>768MB</td>
 </tr>
</table>

Commit message:

CDD: Added Fuzz testing req.
Added these requirements to assure runtime stability and help the third
party app developers.

Bug: 35633299
Test: N/A
Change-Id: I988d540c61194d450bc3ad01d0a3ed45b06c914e

3_software/3_7_runtime-compatibility.md, after:

## 3.7\. Runtime Compatibility

Device implementations MUST support the full Dalvik Executable (DEX) format and
[Dalvik bytecode specification and semantics](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/dalvik/).
Device implementers SHOULD use ART, the reference upstream implementation of the Dalvik
Executable Format, and the reference implementation’s package management system.
Device implementers SHOULD run fuzz tests under various modes of execution and
target architectures to assure the stability of the runtime. Refer to [JFuzz](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/art/+/master/tools/dexfuzz/)
and [DexFuzz](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/art/+/master/tools/dexfuzz/)
in the Android Open Source Project website.

Device implementations MUST configure Dalvik runtimes to allocate memory in
accordance with the upstream Android platform, and as specified by the following
table. (See [section 7.1.1](#7_1_1_screen_configuration) for screen size and
screen density definitions.) Note that memory values specified below are
considered minimum values and device implementations MAY allocate more memory
per application.

<table>
 <tr>
    <th>Screen Layout</th>
    <th>Screen Density</th>
    <th>Minimum Application Memory</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">Android Watch</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="3">32MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">36MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>56MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>64MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>88MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>112MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>154MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">small/normal</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">32MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="3">48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">80MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>96MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>112MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>128MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>192MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>256MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">large</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td>32MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
    <td>48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">80MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
    <td>96MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td>128MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
    <td>160MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>192MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>228MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>256MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>384MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>512MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td rowspan="12">xlarge</td>
    <td>120 dpi (ldpi)</td>
    <td>48MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>160 dpi (mdpi)</td>
    <td>80MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>213 dpi (tvdpi)</td>
    <td rowspan="2">96MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>240 dpi (hdpi)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>280 dpi (280dpi)</td>
    <td>144MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>320 dpi (xhdpi)</td>
    <td>192MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>360 dpi (360dpi)</td>
    <td>240MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>400 dpi (400dpi)</td>
    <td>288MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>420 dpi (420dpi)</td>
    <td>336MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>480 dpi (xxhdpi)</td>
    <td>384MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>560 dpi (560dpi)</td>
    <td>576MB</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
    <td>640 dpi (xxxhdpi)</td>
    <td>768MB</td>
 </tr>
</table>
