9_security-model/9_1_permissions.md, before:

## 9.1\. Permissions

Device implementations MUST support the
[Android permissions model](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/security/permissions.html) as
defined in the Android developer documentation. Specifically, implementations
MUST enforce each permission defined as described in the SDK documentation; no
permissions may be omitted, altered, or ignored. Implementations MAY add
additional permissions, provided the new permission ID strings are not in the
android.\* namespace.

Permissions with a `protectionLevel` of ['PROTECTION_FLAG_PRIVILEGED'](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/pm/PermissionInfo.html#PROTECTION_FLAG_PRIVILEGED)
MUST only be granted to apps preloaded in the whitelisted privileged path(s)
of the system image, such as the `system/priv-app` path in the AOSP
implementation.

Permissions with a protection level of dangerous are runtime permissions.
Applications with targetSdkVersion > 22 request them at runtime. Device
implementations:

*   MUST show a dedicated interface for the user to decide whether to grant the
requested runtime permissions and also provide an interface for the user to
manage runtime permissions.
*   MUST have one and only one implementation of both user interfaces.
*   MUST NOT grant any runtime permissions to preinstalled apps unless:
    *   the user's consent can be obtained before the application uses it
    *   the runtime permissions are associated with an intent pattern for which
the preinstalled application is set as the default handler

Commit message:

CDD: Require privileged permissions only to be granted when explicitly whitelisted per app/permission
This is to ensure that the standard android permission model is kept
consistent as documented in the Android SDK.
See https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/permissions/requesting.html
and https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/pm/PermissionInfo.html#PROTECTION_FLAG_PRIVILEGED

Bug:33499917
Test: manual
Change-Id: Ie1f18dcb6cfb6d4a5329b0f0eb52f7feb3ed9a7e

9_security-model/9_1_permissions.md, after:

## 9.1\. Permissions

Device implementations MUST support the
[Android permissions model](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/security/permissions.html) as
defined in the Android developer documentation. Specifically, implementations
MUST enforce each permission defined as described in the SDK documentation; no
permissions may be omitted, altered, or ignored. Implementations MAY add
additional permissions, provided the new permission ID strings are not in the
android.\* namespace.

Permissions with a `protectionLevel` of [PROTECTION_FLAG_PRIVILEGED](
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/pm/PermissionInfo.html#PROTECTION_FLAG_PRIVILEGED)
MUST only be granted to apps preloaded in the privileged path(s) of the system image and within the
subset of the explicitly whitelisted permissions for each app. The AOSP implementation meets this
requirement by reading and honoring the whitelisted permissions for each app from the files in the
`etc/permissions/` path and using the `system/priv-app` path as the privileged path.

Permissions with a protection level of dangerous are runtime permissions.
Applications with targetSdkVersion > 22 request them at runtime. Device
implementations:

*   MUST show a dedicated interface for the user to decide whether to grant the
requested runtime permissions and also provide an interface for the user to
manage runtime permissions.
*   MUST have one and only one implementation of both user interfaces.
*   MUST NOT grant any runtime permissions to preinstalled apps unless:
    *   the user's consent can be obtained before the application uses it
    *   the runtime permissions are associated with an intent pattern for which
the preinstalled application is set as the default handler
