7_hardware-compatibility/7_8_audio.md, before:

## 7.8\. Audio

### 7.8.1\. Microphone

<div class="note">

Android Handheld, Watch, and Automotive implementations MUST include a
microphone.

</div>

Device implementations MAY omit a microphone. However, if a device
implementation omits a microphone, it MUST NOT report the
android.hardware.microphone feature constant, and MUST implement the audio
recording API at least as no-ops, per [section 7](#7_hardware_compatibility).
Conversely, device implementations that do possess a microphone:

*   MUST report the android.hardware.microphone feature constant.
*   MUST meet the audio recording requirements in [section 5.4](#5_4_audio_recording).
*   MUST meet the audio latency requirements in [section 5.6](#5_6_audio_latency).
*   STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to support near-ultrasound recording as described in
[section 7.8.3](#7_8_3_near_ultrasound).

### 7.8.2\. Audio Output

<div class="note">

Android Watch devices MAY include an audio output.

</div>

Device implementations including a speaker or with an audio/multimedia output
port for an audio output peripheral as a headset or an external speaker:

*   MUST report the android.hardware.audio.output feature constant.
*   MUST meet the audio playback requirements in [section 5.5](#5_5_audio_playback).
*   MUST meet the audio latency requirements in [section 5.6](#5_6_audio_latency).
*   STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to support near-ultrasound playback as described in
[section 7.8.3](#7_8_3_near_ultrasound).

Conversely, if a device implementation does not include a speaker or audio
output port, it MUST NOT report the android.hardware.audio output feature, and
MUST implement the Audio Output related APIs as no-ops at least.

Android Watch device implementation MAY but SHOULD NOT have audio output, but
other types of Android device implementations MUST have an audio output and
declare android.hardware.audio.output.

#### 7.8.2.1\. Analog Audio Ports

In order to be compatible with the
[headsets and other audio accessories](http://source.android.com/accessories/headset-spec.html)
using the 3.5mm audio plug across the Android ecosystem, if a device
implementation includes one or more analog audio ports, at least one of the
audio port(s) SHOULD be a 4 conductor 3.5mm audio jack. If a device
implementation has a 4 conductor 3.5mm audio jack, it:

*   MUST support audio playback to stereo headphones and stereo headsets with a
microphone, and SHOULD support audio recording from stereo headsets with a
microphone.
*   MUST support TRRS audio plugs with the CTIA pin-out order, and SHOULD
support audio plugs with the OMTP pin-out order.
*   MUST support the detection of microphone on the plugged in audio accessory,
if the device implementation supports a microphone, and broadcast the
android.intent.action.HEADSET_PLUG with the extra value microphone set as 1.
*   MUST support the detection and mapping to the keycodes for the following
3 ranges of equivalent impedance between the microphone and ground conductors
on the audio plug:
    *   **70 ohm or less**: KEYCODE_HEADSETHOOK
    *   **210-290 Ohm**: KEYCODE_VOLUME_UP
    *   **360-680 Ohm**: KEYCODE_VOLUME_DOWN
*   STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to detect and map to the keycode for the following
range of equivalent impedance between the microphone and ground conductors
on the audio plug:
    *   **110-180 Ohm:** KEYCODE_VOICE_ASSIST
*   MUST trigger ACTION_HEADSET_PLUG upon a plug insert, but only after all
contacts on plug are touching their relevant segments on the jack.
*   MUST be capable of driving at least 150mV ± 10% of output voltage on a 32
Ohm speaker impedance.
*   MUST have a microphone bias voltage between 1.8V ~ 2.9V.

### 7.8.3\. Near-Ultrasound

Near-Ultrasound audio is the 18.5 kHz to 20 kHz band. Device implementations
MUST correctly report the support of near-ultrasound audio capability via the
[AudioManager.getProperty](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager.html#getProperty%28java.lang.String%29)
API as follows:

*   If
[PROPERTY_SUPPORT_MIC_NEAR_ULTRASOUND](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager.html#PROPERTY_SUPPORT_MIC_NEAR_ULTRASOUND)
is "true", then the following requirements must be met by the
VOICE_RECOGNITION and UNPROCESSED audio sources:
    *   The microphone's mean power response in the 18.5 kHz to 20 kHz band
MUST be no more than 15 dB below the response at 2 kHz.
    * The microphone's unweighted signal to noise ratio over 18.5 kHz to 20 kHz
for a 19 kHz tone at -26 dBFS MUST be no lower than 50 dB.
*   If
[PROPERTY_SUPPORT_SPEAKER_NEAR_ULTRASOUND](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager.html#PROPERTY_SUPPORT_SPEAKER_NEAR_ULTRASOUND)
is "true", then the speaker's mean response in 18.5 kHz - 20 kHz MUST be no
lower than 40 dB below the response at 2 kHz.

Commit message:

CDD: clarify definition of an audio output port
This is to address some confusion among device makers whether an audio
interface over bluetooth would also count as an audio output.

Bug: 64090057
Test: builds CDD PDF
Change-Id: If96db280e698dbefd1cd23d6f3fe7fedec52ac11

7_hardware-compatibility/7_8_audio.md, after:

## 7.8\. Audio

### 7.8.1\. Microphone

<div class="note">

Android Handheld, Watch, and Automotive implementations MUST include a
microphone.

</div>

Device implementations MAY omit a microphone. However, if a device
implementation omits a microphone, it MUST NOT report the
android.hardware.microphone feature constant, and MUST implement the audio
recording API at least as no-ops, per [section 7](#7_hardware_compatibility).
Conversely, device implementations that do possess a microphone:

*   MUST report the android.hardware.microphone feature constant.
*   MUST meet the audio recording requirements in [section 5.4](#5_4_audio_recording).
*   MUST meet the audio latency requirements in [section 5.6](#5_6_audio_latency).
*   STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to support near-ultrasound recording as described in
[section 7.8.3](#7_8_3_near_ultrasound).

### 7.8.2\. Audio Output

<div class="note">

Android Watch devices MAY include an audio output.

</div>

Device implementations including a speaker or with an audio/multimedia output
port for an audio output peripheral as a headset or an external speaker:

*   MUST report the android.hardware.audio.output feature constant.
*   MUST meet the audio playback requirements in [section 5.5](#5_5_audio_playback).
*   MUST meet the audio latency requirements in [section 5.6](#5_6_audio_latency).
*   STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to support near-ultrasound playback as described in
[section 7.8.3](#7_8_3_near_ultrasound).

Conversely, if a device implementation does not include a speaker or audio
output port, it MUST NOT report the android.hardware.audio output feature, and
MUST implement the Audio Output related APIs as no-ops at least.

Android Watch device implementation MAY but SHOULD NOT have audio output, but
other types of Android device implementations MUST have an audio output and
declare android.hardware.audio.output.

For the purposes of this section, an "output port" is a
[physical interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_port_%28hardware%29)
such as a 3.5mm audio jack, HDMI, or USB host mode port with USB audio class.
Support for audio output over radio-based protocols such as Bluetooth,
WiFi, or cellular network does not qualify as including an "output port".

#### 7.8.2.1\. Analog Audio Ports

In order to be compatible with the
[headsets and other audio accessories](http://source.android.com/accessories/headset-spec.html)
using the 3.5mm audio plug across the Android ecosystem, if a device
implementation includes one or more analog audio ports, at least one of the
audio port(s) SHOULD be a 4 conductor 3.5mm audio jack. If a device
implementation has a 4 conductor 3.5mm audio jack, it:

*   MUST support audio playback to stereo headphones and stereo headsets with a
microphone, and SHOULD support audio recording from stereo headsets with a
microphone.
*   MUST support TRRS audio plugs with the CTIA pin-out order, and SHOULD
support audio plugs with the OMTP pin-out order.
*   MUST support the detection of microphone on the plugged in audio accessory,
if the device implementation supports a microphone, and broadcast the
android.intent.action.HEADSET_PLUG with the extra value microphone set as 1.
*   MUST support the detection and mapping to the keycodes for the following
3 ranges of equivalent impedance between the microphone and ground conductors
on the audio plug:
    *   **70 ohm or less**: KEYCODE_HEADSETHOOK
    *   **210-290 Ohm**: KEYCODE_VOLUME_UP
    *   **360-680 Ohm**: KEYCODE_VOLUME_DOWN
*   STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to detect and map to the keycode for the following
range of equivalent impedance between the microphone and ground conductors
on the audio plug:
    *   **110-180 Ohm:** KEYCODE_VOICE_ASSIST
*   MUST trigger ACTION_HEADSET_PLUG upon a plug insert, but only after all
contacts on plug are touching their relevant segments on the jack.
*   MUST be capable of driving at least 150mV ± 10% of output voltage on a 32
Ohm speaker impedance.
*   MUST have a microphone bias voltage between 1.8V ~ 2.9V.

### 7.8.3\. Near-Ultrasound

Near-Ultrasound audio is the 18.5 kHz to 20 kHz band. Device implementations
MUST correctly report the support of near-ultrasound audio capability via the
[AudioManager.getProperty](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager.html#getProperty%28java.lang.String%29)
API as follows:

*   If
[PROPERTY_SUPPORT_MIC_NEAR_ULTRASOUND](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager.html#PROPERTY_SUPPORT_MIC_NEAR_ULTRASOUND)
is "true", then the following requirements must be met by the
VOICE_RECOGNITION and UNPROCESSED audio sources:
    *   The microphone's mean power response in the 18.5 kHz to 20 kHz band
MUST be no more than 15 dB below the response at 2 kHz.
    * The microphone's unweighted signal to noise ratio over 18.5 kHz to 20 kHz
for a 19 kHz tone at -26 dBFS MUST be no lower than 50 dB.
*   If
[PROPERTY_SUPPORT_SPEAKER_NEAR_ULTRASOUND](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/AudioManager.html#PROPERTY_SUPPORT_SPEAKER_NEAR_ULTRASOUND)
is "true", then the speaker's mean response in 18.5 kHz - 20 kHz MUST be no
lower than 40 dB below the response at 2 kHz.
